Over the last I don't know 15 years or
so the art of making software fragmented
a lot and then we kind of split into
different roles. Each role kind of used
their own tool. You use their own
artifact. They think in their own kind
of words and lingo with cursor
things kind of flip again. for the first
time that design is such an approachable
concept and skill set to a lot more
people and it brings together sort of
people who have aspirations for design
and wanting to build things, wanting to
prototype things, putting beautiful
stuff out in the world. There needs to
be something for the human to specify
what is good, what is right, how I want
to do it. If you don't put in that
opinion, it will just produce AI slot.
People will always have their strength
or their unique special skill. I see AI
almost like it's almost like a universal
interface.
So design is kind of like trying to
figure out what is the best
configuration and the simplest state for
all of us. The beauty is actually
putting things all together.
Rio, welcome to the Async Z podcast.
>> Mhm. Uh Jennifer, you've been thinking a
lot about sort of evolution of design um
evolution sort of as it relates to uh
infra as well as software development.
Why don't you talk about what got you so
excited about having Rio and you know
why we have this conversation? Rio and I
uh got to know each other over the past
few months talking about how large
language models and AI tools are going
to impact not just designers, design
engineers and how people are building
prototypes and coming up with great
ideas. I I feel like for the first time
that um design is such an approachable
concept and skill set to a lot more
people and it brings together sort of
people who have aspirations for design
and wanting to build things, wanting to
prototype things, putting beautiful
stuff out in the world much much easier
and uh faster. So uh Rio has gone
through a lot of thinking and journey of
you know um what design means what
design means in the sense of having
cursor being part of like the the
building blocks of it like I I just
really wanted to have him on the podcast
and talk about uh the future of both
coding and design.
>> Rio Rio you've been at notion now
obviously head of design cursor why
don't you take us through your journey
and how you've been thinking about some
of these topics. I think to me it's like
building software
um there's like so many layers of
abstractions and depth that you you need
to take care of and in order to do
something really great you actually need
to know everything or like you assemble
a team that works really well together
with you know people with different
strength on every layer. Maybe you have
the greatest infer engineers, people
doing ML. Uh maybe you have, you know,
um really good design engineers who
really like they can just handwrite CSS
and then they'll be like perfect. Um in
order for say one person to do all of
this or learn all of this, it takes a
long time of trial and error. You have
to build from the simplest things to you
know gradually more complex, scale it up
to more people. um share your workout to
the public, see what happens, do this
feedback loop. And if you're doing it in
a team, sometimes it takes even longer
because say you're just a designer, you
you're doing some mocks in Figma and
then you shared it out, you got some
feedback, then your PM needs to do this
like PR thing and then run more meetings
and then there's like more people
involved and then they're like
and takes a long time.
and then maybe like a year later your
design came out but then it's like 20%
of what you wanted.
But with this new thing
to with cursor
you can just say you have an idea it
might be a little ambiguous
you just tell it to tell the agent and
then it might give you something maybe
like 60% 70%
uh on the first shot
but you kind of kind of skipped a lot of
the you know complexities.
Um we kind of transformed from like you
need to understand all this thing all
these concepts of making software
then you can do something to I can do
something now
and then I might get something that's
maybe imperfect not exactly what I want
but the process of iterating and like
kind of poking at it becomes really
quick and then as the agents evolve As
the models get better, as it talks to
more tools, it understands visuals
better, it can talk to Figma, the mocks
that I had, it can talk to notion, all
the, you know, ideas, the docs, the the
meeting knows anything.
And the most important thing is it knows
the codebase, which is the truth, the
material of how we, you know, build
software.
So that kind of changes the whole thing.
It's like the tool not only you know
impacts the individual software
engineers like for them
maybe like for cursor like we kind of
try to fit as many workflows and people
as we can say there's like people who
they pride themselves at like you know
really think thoroughly write the most
clean code for those people they can
just type and then we do the tab thing
and the tab got really good at like it's
almost like it knows what you want to do
next. Um so for those people they can do
that but there's like increasingly more
people doing the agent. Um
where like even for the most
professional coders they start to do
this new thing.
>> Yeah.
>> I am trying to think of even myself as a
uh as example um prior to joining the
firm I was on the product side. I was
working with a lot of designing
designers, uh, design engineering teams
back then. It wasn't called that way.
It's more like designers, front-end
engineers, uh, and then, uh, UX
designers too. Um,
>> it was still a very disjointed workflow.
It's like, you know, a lot of the the
design work happens more in isolated
fashion with just the designers
themselves. Like
>> they spend two weeks coming up with a
concept.
>> Yeah. what does the UI look like and
work with design uh UX designers on what
the UX look like and then hand it off to
the product team and works with
engineers. Figma already bring that sort
of process a lot closer that you can
collaborate around one artifact that
everybody can give inputs and prototype
and bring sort of more of a close to um
uh the reality artifacts
into into uh these people's hands. where
with cursor it's even one step closer is
you can actually poke around and play
with uh these
artifacts that are functional and
working.
>> I'm curious what does it mean for
collaboration among these teams as
you're
>> mentioning um the collapse of that
iteration
>> um and and the speed um and also what is
what does it mean for the different
roles that's involved in design?
>> Yes.
So I think
maybe like over the last I don't know 15
years or so I think the the art of
making software fragmented a lot and
then we kind of split into different
roles each role kind of use their own
tool you use their own artifact they
think in their own kind of words and
lingo say the designers are stuck in
Figma before maybe it's like sketch
their word actually like you know files
and then the the PMs maybe they're like
just writing docs and running meetings
or maybe they're in Google Docs um and
say the data people maybe like you know
some other tool and then everyone's like
kind of siloed in their own way and then
we need to kind of come up with a
process to tie everything uh or like
build better tools to kind of unify
everything. We tried that at notion but
the problem is like people have like
already developed like so much like
habits
there's like inertia to kind of change
that or like change people's tools um or
like kind of
um like you can't really force anyone to
like adopt something new.
um that doesn't perfectly fit them. Um
but with AI, with no uh with cursor,
things kind of flip again cuz we want to
kind of build something where it can
kind of, you know, connect and absorb
all of these artifacts
um and formats.
And later maybe even like within cursor
like there could be different views of
the same code like showing the code as
raw code or like as
is almost like just the very beginning.
um the act of making software is really
just modifying the code like in some
sense like the PM writing the PRD is
modifying the code but they're doing it
through a more passive like
organizational way maybe the designers
influence it more on the visuals um
but when you do this you know
disjointedly there's so much like back
and forth collaboration issues as you
grow the team it gets even more complex.
People start like breaking the software
apart. Things are no longer simple, no
longer unified. like we always talk
about like you kind of ship your work
chart type of thing and then the
different roles kind of fight uh like
designers are right the engineers are
right the PMs are right but
like you know there's this shared truth
which is the code where like you know
you can also gather a lot of information
around putting everything synthesizing
everything together
um then the agent can kind of handle all
these things that you might actually not
know fully but it kind of you know knows
the truth. It could know the present
which is maybe like you know what's in
your codebase what are the actual you
know running tasks or projects even
gathering fe feedback or information
from the real world. It could be also
like you know from the past say like all
the knowledge that you've accumulated
your team preferences your like how the
codebase evolved in goods maybe there's
also the future which is like say you're
planning ahead you're like thinking
about the the vision you're maybe like
ideating some like bigger ideas
you can actually do all of this with
just one to one agent but it might you
know for each individual user or team,
it might take a different shape.
And then like what we want is like
there's like a base experience that
almost works for anyone, anything, but
you can get more specific um if you know
what you're doing or if you have
specific needs. You can even maybe you
know use cursor as if you were using
Figma at some point in the future. Um
but the difference is you are not
interacting with these siloed apps with
their own like formats
and then you don't have to do the
conversion manually with meetings or
whatever like it just does it. Then all
you need to do is you're kind of
thinking about the idea you're like
iterating on it in whatever way that is
the best for you. For the for the
engineer, it might be like a code
editor, but maybe for a designer is
something more visual. For the PM, it
might be something more like a document.
>> That makes sense.
I'm curious given that there's a lot
more focus and emphasis on this concept
of taste after AI comes about and now
there's also this coworker that's an
agent helping with
>> writing code designing elements uh of
the product. Where would the taste live?
Where does that come from? Can you rely
on
>> agents for having good taste? Um, is
that still heavily reliant on the
creator that's the human designer or
developer?
>> I don't really like people talking about
taste as a word because I think it's so
ambiguous.
>> Like how I see it is more like I think
taste is kind of
like there's a part of
like you're selecting
out of you know all the options. Um but
in order to do that you have to kind of
see everything or like you have seen it.
You have maybe dug into the past. You
have kind of figured out oh these are
the ways people did this kind of thing.
you made a connection of, you know, some
some stuff from the past where you've
seen in nature or, I don't know, some
human made it or nature made it and then
you kind of connected that to to your
thing or the thing you want to do. Um,
or you kind of over time build like a
like a preference. It's almost like
you're self- selecting a boundary of uh
this is what is right, this is what is
beautiful, this is what is good. Um
and I think it's very different for each
person. There is no right, there is no
wrong. Um
it's more dependent on say like
the things that you've seen. It's almost
like an LLM. But the problem with an LLM
is like it actually has seen everything
and it doesn't really have an opinion
or like it kind of confused itself
thinking that people prefer purple
gradients everywhere.
Um but what is good is like the LM
because it has seen a lot of things. It
can do the baseline really fast and
really good. Then the thing on top is
taste or like your self- selection of
what is good like you're kind of drawing
the boundary. That is your decision.
Though the AI can increasingly help you
do that. Say we have a new thing in
cursor called plan mode. If you type in
the prompt and then you don't really
want to fill in the details, you can
switch to plan go. it will kind of just
build the spec for you and then you can
add details, you can change it as you
want. Um,
>> yeah,
>> but it's almost like I don't really
believe in say you give the agent
something longunning or like it's really
like oluded
like a really non-specific prompt and
then expected to give you exactly what
you want. like it's just not going to
work. There needs to be something for
the human to specify
what is good, what is right, how I want
to do it. If you don't put in that
opinion, it will just produce AI slop.
>> Yeah, you were alluding earlier to this
sort of, you know, fight between product
managers, designers, and engineers to or
this sort of dance. um an engine of you
were saying a few years ago the
categories were somewhat different as
there is this blurring um how do you
think these categories will evolve um
over the years?
>> I think like people will always have
their strength or their unique special
skill or some spike.
um say like some people are more good at
coordinating, some people are good at
the visual space, some people are maybe
good at architecting like you know the
lower level constructs. Um,
but I I think of all of these people as
just like like they're software builders
or
makers.
Like we kind of started there like if
you look back when
so like the early computing era there
was no title or people were maybe like
researchers were like but they they
maybe designed the low-level
architecture they maybe even you know
built the UI and how to display the UI
on the screen and the whole thing
maybe one person or two or five
and when you did bad. And also I think
back then there were like less
say economic constraints where they were
funded and they weren't like trying to
make money as much. So they kind of made
the whole thing really whole. And now
it's like you kind of break everything
down.
You try to optimize them with like
processes and cause optimizations
and people's become like
you know boxed into little areas and
problem sets when the whole thing is
actually all together.
Um, and that causes a lot of problems I
think like people people now make
software that
I don't know
like they don't even think of
like
like there's some like ideal that's kind
of lost and people think too much on the
technical problems, the design problems,
the money problems, not the whole thing
or what we're trying to make better for
people
but you know we're kind of going
backwards now as you know they say tools
like cursor
if you were you know self identified as
a designer or developer or something
like I used to also struggle with this I
started like making stuff myself the
whole thing and then I came to the US I
got a job titled product designer I I
stopped coding
I made mocks and prototypes and I waited
for them to happen for like years and
they don't happen or like they ended up
shipping as like a YouTube video.
That's crazy.
But, you know, with this new tool, a
designer can build. they can actually
like, you know, work on their craft, the
the stuff that they really care about,
make that really good and let the rest,
you know, be handled by the agents.
They can, you know, kind of put their
taste on top and all the stuff that they
don't want to worry about, give it to
the agents.
Um, but you can also assemble like a
really good team. So like there's like
really good in for engineers, front end
engineers, PMs who are like I don't know
not just running meetings
get all of them together
give them the same tool the same code
base they can start covering each
other's like you know weaknesses
and then amplify their strength and the
agent kind of holds everything and you
know instead of you pinging this guy uh
where is your design and knows.
>> Yeah, that resolves a lot of um the
common conflicts of spending more effort
on the functional part of the software
or spending more time on the
>> artistic um aesthetic side of
>> the the product itself and being
appealing to the users. And you have
worked at many of the very design
focused design ccentric companies from
notion to even prior to that Asana like
now given sort of
the democratization of who can touch
that external facing um aesthetic part
of the product. How do you think about
influencing even I guess your current
team and uh people at cursor to spend
more effort in thinking about that
versus just the functional part of the
product itself?
>> Yeah.
Yeah. One thing I want to call out is
design is not just about aesthetics.
It is act like how I think of it is
like it's all it's it actually includes
all the say the architectural designs or
like all the concepts of what this thing
is or like the company say
for notion as an example
notion is a pure conceptual product
meaning every single concept was
designed by a person.
So like in in notion
it is really just blocks pages databases
the workspace
and then everything kind of works around
these concepts and then at every layer
there's like a representation of them
there could be like you know at the very
top is like the UI or like the brand or
like the visuals the aesthetics but then
there's actually the aesthetics every
layer how you architect say like the
front-end code and architecture how
you know, how the reactive stays sync
and how you render stuff to like how do
you like store these objects, how they,
you know, relate to each other to all
the core concepts of the thing. And if
you look at software, it's like it's
actually really simple if you look at
the concepts themselves. Um, so design
is kind of like trying to figure out
what is the best configuration and the
simplest state for all of this.
Some people maybe only focus on the
visuals or the interactions or certain
slices. Um, but
I think the the beauty is actually
putting things all together as well as
you can. So I think it it is really
about what I just talked about is like
not seeing design as just
should we use a six pixel border radius
or four.
Um but it's rather like how do I design
the most simple system, fewest number of
concepts,
fewest
code paths
to do the most things for most people.
You you guys obviously have incredible
product market fit with developers. Can
and we've alluded to a bunch of it, but
can you share more about maybe either
how you guys have navigated the idea
maze of how you want to serve designers
or just more around what what kind of
tooling you you think there's an
opportunity to provide?
>> Mhm. Yeah.
So, I think
cursor like
is still like our primary focus is on
professional developers and teams. Um
but because of that like people around
them are already here.
>> Yeah.
>> And
I think for the longest time we've been
actually intentionally making cursor
pretty hard to get in for say the
nontechnical people. Um but they're are
here now and they actually struggle to
get in and they really want to get in.
Um,
one example is like when you open up
cursor, there's like three buttons. It
says open project, connect to SSH, clone
repo or something. As a beginner or like
a non-techno person, I can't understand
any of this. Um, but what if say like we
just kind of give you the agent view
blank, you can just start doing things.
Like there's a lot of little things we
can kind of fix
to just make cursor feel more friendly
and welcoming for these people
um who are like kind of engine people
who are
um maybe they know software concepts or
certain layers but they might not be
able to code. Um I want to make make
sure that when they come in they can
like without feeling overwhelmed or like
feeling like ah this is like a code
editor. It's an IDE. It is more like I
can start doing things and as I start
doing things
um I can maybe like pick the path that I
prefer. So like a designer maybe
maybe they're just like kind of chatting
with the browser next to it.
Um as the agent is like making edits
they can kind of preview the changes
they can maybe like interact in the
browser pick this element change like ah
I want to swap this with something else
and then boom it happens. Um
so how we do it is not um say creating
new products or splitting cursor that is
the same thing but just like different
preconfigurations and packaging of the
same thing.
Because like kind of like what I just
said like thinking about the concepts
like cursor itself is actually really
simple or like AI agents in general are
pretty simple.
um what you want to do is actually like
not um
like if you look at I don't know like a
chat GPT agent versus like a cursor
versus like a replet a vzero a notion
agent even the architecture or how they
work or like they're almost the same.
Um
so what if we can come up with like a
set of you know universal shared
concepts for interacting with AI with
agents
with code with software
but you can kind of mutate each each one
to fit more people and to fit more use
cases.
Um, and then each of them can leverage
say the best model to do this UI thing
with the best view that fits me. I can
configure it however I want. If I want
to see everything, I can. If I don't
want to see anything, I can too.
This leads to my question of over the
last few years um and I don't know if
it's few years or a decade there is the
concept of purpose-built tools for
certain persona whether it's web flow
for you know um persona or use cases
like for landing pages
>> vers um visero for more of the you know
front-end developers building um
building uh nextjs apps um there's tools
for designers there tools handle from
design to engineering
>> where now there's more of a concept of
>> the everything app chatbt is kind of
everything app
>> notion is kind of everything app uh you
can go to it for your note takingaking
but you can also publish notion pages
cursor is becoming more of a everything
app is a path that we're going down
towards of having these all-encompassing
apps that can do a lot more things that
used to be captured by a single purpose
app is there still place for
purpose-built tools for a specific use
case or persona. How do you see that?
>> Yeah.
>> Dynamic.
>> I think it's just like different
philosophies of doing things and making
software.
Um I think there's like almost like two
ways you can look at the thing. There is
this
like the user centric human centered
design path which is you know you start
from a problem
you identify the group of people who
have this problem figure out you know
what they want build really specific
solutions for them
versus like there's the more system
angle to think about things where you're
just kind of looking at the software
itself, how it is composed and then
think about
where do I tweak a little bit to satisfy
this constraint or to make this use case
work or to enable this tool to work for
these people.
I think it's like fundamentally two
different philosophies and then
I think it is much easier to do the say
the user centric uh way
um
but it kind of limits you from the
beginning because when you start
building these specific solutions
they only work for those specific
people. If you want to grow the people
or you want to grow the use cases, you
actually need to kind of tear apart
everything you have your core concepts
and a lot of people just can't do that.
So what they do is instead of doing that
they add more things, more concepts,
more features
and then there will be a point where
this thing no longer serves your initial
group of people anymore. The simple
thing is no longer simple. the
purposeful thing is no longer simple.
And all of these purposeful apps,
they're kind of selfish. They are
siloing people, siloing workflows for
file formats,
creating islands.
When if you look at the thing like all
these purposeful app whatever like I
also work at ASA asauna the core
concepts are really tasks and projects
everything around tasks and projects
everything they add needs to work with
those and that naturally limits what it
can do
versus say like notion like how we see
notion it is not taking it is disguised
as note takingaking
Um like you come in you can start from a
blank page you can type but then what
you're doing is actually like you know
blog pages databases and a workspace
each block is almost like a JSON objects
a page is just a array of JSON objects
and then we render each block in the you
know the layout and the type it is and
then you can put them in a database. Now
they have you know more properties they
share more stuff there's more hierarchy
and all pages can nest each other that
is notion but then you can do whatever
with it you can have a task project
database they all work together they can
be a list they can be a board do
whatever you want
but then the problem is you know for
these more universal
type of apps it's like
because it's so open-ended it's kind of
hard to get started that if I don't have
the patience to kind of figure out how
it works, I might not even get to the
test and projects.
So there's always that tension, but it
is fixable.
You can build better packaging, you can
use AI. Um,
so I think there's just
like my personal
uh preference is I would try to build
something that works
better for everyone than just ah this
these people are the people we care
about. I don't care about everything
else and then I think they should use my
thing. That's not how you do it.
We talk about AI, we talk about agents
and we talk about how it really um
speeds up um building things and
prototyping. But when it really comes to
these type of you know helping users to
understand a product better on boarding
learning the new concepts also to you as
a as a designer design leader um how
does like interacting with AI really
improves the usability utility of the
product?
Mhm. Yeah. I see AI
almost like it's almost like a universal
interface
and then the the bare minimum of it is
really just a prompt and then you get
some response. Then you can kind of put
this into like different forms. It could
be like a little input like a chat box.
Um it could be like a sidebar, you know,
you see the chat. It could be maybe you
select something, you can do stuff with
it, but it could also say like you
completely transform this layer. It's
not chat. It's not like an input. It's
more fitted to
say it's more purposeful even. Um, but
underneath it is still the same thing.
It is still the same AI, same agent,
same architecture, same like we can flip
different models and prompts and stuff.
And then fundamentally
that that is what it is. But because of
that you can actually build a lot of
different layers and shapes. Then each
person
can find the shape that fits them and
then it will feel more comfortable. Um
but also there's always this like
baseline thing which is it's just it's
almost like Google like chat GPT is just
a box. You can actually put whatever but
there will be more specific tools that
fit each person or each use case better.
>> Does every software from now on becomes
a chat box to begin with and what's the
role
>> of UX design plays in that?
>> Yeah, I think like imagine
um
there is only chat.
I think that will also be like a really
bad experience because you know you
stare at a blank and put you need to do
something. You need to initiate the
thing. You need to ask the right
questions. Put in the right prompt. You
might not know what kind of response you
will get unless you play with this thing
a lot. as a new person maybe like you
know they might try it the first time
they get something that doesn't feel
like what they wanted and they're like
ah this is not for me this is bad
um but I think there's
there's so much potential where like I
think the models today can already do so
much stuff for a lot of people for a lot
of use cases we need to kind of design a
mechanism to kind of help
transform that input output into the
form or format or views or workflows
of the people you know today
get them through that thing to hear
instead of like forcing people to be ah
now you need to use this tool and then
you actually don't know how it connects
with your current workflow you need to
figure it out you don't really know what
how it works it feels kind of scary ah
what do I do you know versus like you
actually ease them in through the thing
they are used to. And I think those are
actually the more optimal
form factors for say the individual
person or the use case itself cuz I I
know like I I just don't want to like
typing a question every time or ah it's
give me like this wall of text of text
response I need to like read
versus say like uh your you know the
lines that you autocomplete just appears
you just press tab or like Maybe I just
select some element in my artboard and
say ah make four variants of it and boom
it's there
but underneath it's the same thing.
>> On this question um I I I have um one
more one more thought is um
when when thinking about creativity a
lot of times when you have more
constraints and more guard rails it's
actually more of a friend to uh to bring
to creativity than not. Whereas now we
have a much more open-ended world. We
have a much more capable um tool that we
can explore a lot more unconstrained
domain and fashions.
>> How do you still try to apply constraint
I guess in your um
line of work?
>> Yeah. And how do you think the software
itself now that we have uh this open
chat window and chat box that can still
brings that constraints in to give the
builders
>> more inspirations and creativity?
>> Yeah,
I think the biggest constraint is
it's kind of like
simplicity in a sense.
Um
meaning
like there's a limit of how much
concepts or things you can expose to any
given individual at any given time for
them to kind of figure things out.
So there is a natural constraint
on that side. For example, like on the
cognitive side, there's maybe like a
constraint on space. So like cursor the
window you can stretch it like this or
up. What if it's like this then you
start reducing things where like you're
kind of like prioritizing what to show
what is the most important and then
those things actually don't change that
much or like it is really important to
figure those things out and then you can
kind of
build a mechanism where
you can kind of accommodate more things.
say like there's secondary level things
that maybe some people want to do. Maybe
it's like more specific modes of
operations or parts of the workflow.
Maybe it is like
um for different kinds of individual or
preferences. Um but they are still like
kind of layers of the core concepts or
things. They're not kind of linearly
like additive
throw out all at all all at you at once.
Um and I think the the the interface
where
how software manifests themselves or how
we design even it will start becoming
less about say the designer decides ah
these are the buttons where they are
and then it's like a fixed thing but
rather it's like there's like shared
concepts and shared me mechanisms
of the same thing but it could say they
take different forms where you can kind
of expose ways for people to customize
and make them their own. Um
then it's like the designer
what they're really thinking about is
like what are the most important
concepts? How do they relate to each
other at every layer? Say like for 80%
of people the defaults what should they
be what should be the simplest state of
this app or this thing what is the
default for maybe like you can start
forking it for different people and then
it's like maybe at the second layer
there's like you start exposing more
like the power user features or the the
different archetypes of what you can do
but the default should still stay simple
and then the ideal is like a lot of the
tools
um they don't really tell you what's
going on or how the things work.
Um one example is like you know most of
the CLI coding agents today is like they
kind of force you to use this tiny
little window with this tiny prompt like
that's almost like all the interactions
you can do and then you're kind of
delegating everything to the agent. you
don't really know how things work versus
for cursors like if you prefer something
minimal I think it's fine you can do
that but you can start digging into more
things you can customize the agent you
can make your own custom mode with like
different model preferences and which
tools I want which prompts I want you
can pick like uh maybe like instead of
viewing
just code I want like a preview I want
like a doc thing I want a browser
I can change all the colors. Like it's
all up to you. I can prefer the
keyboard. I can prefer the mouse.
And then the designers, what they're
really doing is they're thinking of
what is the minimal set of abstractions,
the system to kind of handle all of
these permutations.
I love that concept of you're not just
seeing the tool itself as a tool, but
it's actually a toolbox where you can
customize and configure it to fit your
purpose and build your own tool
>> um that you know fits uh your workflow
and and give a ton of flexibility to to
the end user. That's sort of the eos of
cursor and notion that the more you
unpack from the beginning, there's more
to come.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> there's more to play and tinker,
>> right? because I think there's a lot of
us who are actually really into that
kind of stuff.
>> For sure. Yeah. Rio, you have an
impeccable taste and sense of design. Uh
I'm very curious on your day-to-day
life, how do you cultivate um your envir
the surrounding environments, your own
>> um surroundings uh to
continue to find inspirations and
bring the best design out to the world.
Mhm.
>> Are there things you do, practices you
want to share with the audience?
>> I don't really have like a
routine or like it's kind of sporadic.
Um
like I don't sit in Figma all day and
making mocks. Um,
I like
um it's like doing everything at once
type of type of vibe. So like I might be
thinking about a like longer problem.
Um,
I would maybe like just write. I like
writing and kind of thinking in bullets.
I'll like
go out of the office on a walk and then
take my phone with like a notion page
and I'll just start writing.
I'll make sketches.
I'll
maybe play individual space. I'll maybe
like, you know, build a prototype and
code. Um,
a lot of my inspirations come from
like not forcing it and kind of leaving
some blank space
to let things simmer.
A lot of it comes from
like just looking at stuff or
look looking at everything, not just
software.
So like you can look at print design,
graphic design,
motion,
films, music, art,
anything that humans made. The nature
side of things are really cool, too.
Like learning about natural systems. I I
have a biome major. So like there's a
lot of similarities and like you know
how many layers of things you can build,
how they interact with each other. Um,
looking at the past helps a lot. Um, so
like my Rio OS project kind of started
from
like last year I was just like a b I
bought a bunch of old Macs and iPods and
I was just playing with them and I
wanted to like kind of recreate the
feelings. I actually really want to ask
about that because a lot of you know
designers profile page has the most
>> shiny forwardlooking futuristic designs
where you have like I don't know which
year it is like a Mac OS
>> interface with like the original version
of iPod icon.
>> Yeah.
>> Um tell us more about about the real OS
project.
>> Yeah. I started the thing um from so I
was leaving notion and I make noises
when I am in meetings. So like, oh no,
we're
it's all the same thing, stuff like
that. And I wanted to make them a little
gift. So I built like a soundboard app
uh with cursor. It was just one app.
Like it looked like really bad like
Tailwind default styles. And then I just
said, hm, what if we like made it more
like retro Mac OS? And then it put it in
like a almost like a more retro Mac OS
type window
basically like put it in the box and
then I'm like add a menu bar and I add
it on on top. Um
then I'm like now I have a menu bar and
a window. Why not just make more apps
and more windows? And then that's how it
kind of started. And then I just
couldn't stop for like I don't know four
or three months.
>> Yeah. But a lot of the interfaces that I
created I started from
it's like it's kind of inspired from
system 7.
There is like accuracy but also like I
added some like future stuff in it. Um
and then I actually made like more
themes. I added like a Mac OS 10 theme
like the first Aqua theme. I added like
Windows 95 and XP and then if you swap
between them and you play with the OS it
feels really authentic to each but then
it's actually the same thing. So that's
kind of like the the message I want to
kind of tell people is like we've been
almost doing the same thing over and
over again from the very beginning but
maybe given you know the technical
constraints of each era.
There's like just that's how it ended
end ended there and how it ended how how
it came to be.
Um but we kind of carried a lot of these
concepts and patterns over to even now
and then we we are actually still living
in it. Um
and I don't think things will change
that much. Meaning
um there is these like timeless things
that don't change much
and
like it kind of all comes back to
people who are trying to come up with
some really familiar ideas and then
bringing them to like a new medium.
But we're doing the same thing again
with back in 1984 and now like people
are just I don't know using paint to
draw some pictures. There's like a text
editor. You can type some stuff. There's
like a
you know different different concepts
that we put in little pictures. The
icons
>> the desktop like none of that really
changed.
>> Yeah. the uh timeless uh concepts and
and software we're using is the browser,
the the player, the uh the chat windows
and those are all on the on the real OS
um project. So for the audience who want
to check it out, it's at real.loo.
>> Yes, os.real.loo.
>> OS.real.loo.
Awesome. We'll wrap there. Thank you so
much, Rio, for for coming. This is
awesome.